#  FAFSA and Sarcasm: A Sentiment Analysis of YouTube Comments 

This project conducts a sentiment analysis on YouTube comments related to the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). This project analyzes four videos covering year: 2012, 2013, 2016, 2024 (released in 2023 but FAFSA guidelines for academic year 24-25). The analysis covers a range of comments posted by users on YouTube videos responding to videos on and by FAFSA. By leveraging natural language processing (NLP) techniques in Python, this project aims to gain insights into the sentiment expressed by viewers and participants in FAFSA-related discussions. The comments are processed and cleaned to remove noise, including URLs, special characters, punctuation, and stopwords. Additionally, the text is also transformed to lowercase.
The sentiment analysis employs the VADER (Valence Aware Dictionary and sEntiment Reasoner) sentiment analysis tool, which is specifically designed for social media text.
VADER assigns sentiment scores to each comment, indicating whether the sentiment expressed is positive, negative, or neutral. These scores are aggregated and analyzed to uncover overall sentiment trends in the FAFSA-related discussions. The results of this sentiment analysis suggest that VADER is not reliable in reading sarcasm: the language of social media. The point of this research project was to illustrate the overwhelming negative sentiment by the public on FAFSA. Analyzing individual comments proved this hypothesis. However, the overall scores on each video were all positive with the exception of the video from 2023, which scored negative. Overall, this project showcases the weaknesses of NLP and sentiment analysis in understanding sarcasm, a vital component of social media research. 
